*Your prime directive*

If you learn just one thing about public speaking, let it be this: your prime
directive as a presenter is Don't Be Boring.

Most speakers think that their topic is the most important part of their talk,
but they're wrong. And I'll prove it with a story.

A few days ago I was at a conference for students featuring introductory talks
on a number of topics. Nick Quaranto gave a talk on TDD. I've been doing TDD
for years now, have read about it in depth, and have discussed the practice to
death with lots of smart folks. I'm am extremely familiar with the topic.

Nick's talk was intended for folks that had never heard of TDD before, and was
completely basic. I learned literally (literally!) nothing from it.

And you know what? I was completely entertained for the whole damn thing.

Nick had well-designed slides, hilarious gifs, and excellent pacing and energy.
I laughed my way through his talk and gave him the hearty applause he deserved.
I didn't learn a thing from him, but he *made the concept interesting through
his delivery*.

THAT is what you should be shooting for when you stand up in front of a group
of people. 

What you talk about is a trillion times less important than the way you present
it. Never forget that.

===============================================================================

*Kill Your Introduction*

After attending many conferences and dozens of talks, I've noticed a disturbing
trend among speakers: most of them start with an introduction.

Their first slide has the title of the talk.

Their second slide states their name and employer.

Their third slide covers what the talk is about. This is usually the same
abstract that's been published for months on the conference site.

Their fourth slide is usually some sort of back-story like who invented the
concept they'll be talking about, or a survey of the landscape around their
topic.

Finally, around slide number five and minute six, they begin to teach the
audience something of value. If you forced them to stop after five minutes and
ask the audience what useful things they've learned so far, they would have
virtually no answer.

My advice to conference speakers is this: kill your introduction.

I start nearly all my talks like this: "My name is Ben Orenstein and I work for
thoughtbot. This talk is about why vim is the greatest text editor ever
written. The most important thing for you to take away from this talk is X."

One sentence intro. One sentence summary. Third sentence is the most important
idea of the talk.

If you stopped one of my talks after five minutes, my audience would have
learned four minutes and fifty-five seconds of useful information. And they
certainly would have already heard the main thesis of my talk.

There are two reasons I structure my talks this way:

1. There is no need to establish yourself as an authority. People tend to be
very good at detecting competence. If you have impressive credentials but don't
seem to know what you're talking about, you'll lose credibility rapidly.
Likewise, if you are clearly an expert on your topic your credentials are
irrelevant. Make sure you know your subject matter cold, and trust people to
spot your expertise.

2. The number of people listening to you over time steadily declines with time.
However, for the first minute or so you'll have nearly everyones' attention.
Don't waste this opportunity! Hit them with your most important ideas
immediately so that when they do tune out they're missing less and less
important information. As a bonus, by being immediately useful and interesting,
the slope of your tune-out graph will be shallower.

Journalists are trained to front-load their articles so that an editor can chop
any amount off the end and still have a usable piece. Think of your talks this
way and your audiences will thank you.

===============================================================================

*Practicing Your Talk*

Practice talk in as close to live conditions as possible. Every variable that
is different between your practicing and actual talk presents risk. 

One thing many speakers is that the resolution on their screen will be much
lower than usual when plugged into a projector. It's an extremely good idea to
drop your resolution to around 800x600 and run your entire talk. You'll be
surprised at how many things you'll have to tweak. 

===============================================================================

*Keeping your audience's attention*

Don't be boring!

They'll be excited if you seem excited.

Ask for a show of hands or for people to call out the answer to something.

Realize that you'll lose them about 8 minutes in and plan something surprising.

An audience's attention must constantly maintained with energy and interesting
content.

===============================================================================

*Pre-talk checklist*

Whenever I'm creating and practicing a talk, I start a section at the top of my
notes file containing the steps needed to prepare my machine to give the talk.
It's very easy to forget something small that will cause your demo to blow up,
so don't leave this to chance. You DON'T want to try to remember these things
when you're five minutes from taking the stage. 

Right before my talks I'm always a bit nervous, but running through my
preparation checklist a few times gives me confidence that nothing will
surprise me later.

Here are a few things that are in almost all my checklists:
  * clear browser history clear browser autofill hide browser bookmarks bar
  * bump up text size in browser clean up desktop invert colors for readability
  * (Ctrl+Alt+Command+8 on OS X) bump up text size in editor print out notes
  * remember to bring DVI/VGA-to-DisplayPort adapter if you own a Mac get
  * excited!

===============================================================================

*Additional resources*

TODO: add summaries of each.

Reading: "Presentation Smells" by Martin Fowler -
http://martinfowler.com/bliki/PresentationSmells.html

Watching: "The Secret Structure of Great Talks" by Nancy Duarte (18 minutes) -
http://www.ted.com/talks/nancy_duarte_the_secret_structure_of_great_talks.html
