*Your prime directive*

If you learn just one thing about public speaking, let it be this: your prime
directive as a presenter is Don't Be Boring.

Most speakers think that their topic is the most important part of their talk,
but they're wrong. And I'll prove it with a story.

A few days ago I was at a conference for students featuring introductory talks
on a number of topics. Nick Quaranto gave a talk on TDD. I've been doing TDD
for years now, have read about it in depth, and have discussed the practice to
death with lots of smart folks. I'm am extremely familiar with the topic.

Nick's talk was intended for folks that had never heard of TDD before, and was
completely basic. I learned literally (literally!) nothing from it.

And you know what? I was completely entertained for the whole damn thing.

Nick had well-designed slides, hilarious gifs, and excellent pacing and energy.
I laughed my way through his talk and gave him the hearty applause he deserved.
I didn't learn a thing from him, but he *made the concept interesting through
his delivery*.

THAT is what you should be shooting for when you stand up in front of a group
of people. 

What you talk about is a trillion times less important than the way you present
it. Never forget that.

===============================================================================

*Keeping your audience's attention*

Remember your prime directive: don't be boring! 

Start your talk with energy and passion. Show excitement over your topic and
try to convince your audience to share that excitement.

As your talk continues, realize that you'll have to work continuously to hold
their attention. Plan in jokes, surprises, or other emotional events. Jump off
the podium and stride out into the audience. Shout something. Admit an
embarassing truth. Turn the projector off. Anything that breaks up the monotony
and gets them to tune in again.

One great technique for holding interest is making your talk highly
interactive. Interactive talks are more interesting than lectures. I start
almost all my talks by saying "The point of this talk is not for me to reach
the end of of it. The point is for me to teach you something. So if I lose you
at any point, interrupt me immediately. I love questions." I tend to get a lot
of questions, which is great. People usually comment positively on how
interactive my session felt. Further, no one tunes out faster than someone who
doesn't understand what you're talking about. Encouraging questions gives you
the chance to not lose that person.

An audience's attention must constantly maintained with energy and interesting
content.
